rules for radicals by Sol lynskey is a
book that some people hate some people
love and some people fear it presents
itself as a manual with guidance you can
follow in the pursuit of political
change I think it's in precisely that
sense that we have to say the book is a
failure I'm going to read you a couple
of excerpts examples as to why my views
differ fundamentally from the book even
on the level of pragmatic action but
also on the level I suppose of
philosophy or analysis or what have you
I'm going to talk a little bit about the
context surrounding this video being
made in the last few days of 2016
December 2016 as to why this book is so
controversial so much discussed now and
I'm calling this video part 1 because
much much more could be said about this
book I think much more could be said in
criticizing the unexamined assumptions
of left-wing radicalism that have crept
into ecology that have crept into
veganism that have crept into some of
the political struggles of our times
unquestioned an unexamined most of this
advice for us now is bad advice it's
terrible advice but I think there's a
romantic memory of the 1960s just very
much the error of this this book Hales
room by the way as a romantic echo of
what 1960s radicalism was that many
people still aspired emulate so I think
they look back on a book like this
frankly with rose-colored glasses
they're wanting to ignore what's what's
wrong with it right quote page 100 the
job of the organizer is to maneuver and
bait the establishment so that it will
publicly attack him as a dangerous enemy
the word enemy is sufficient to put the
organizer on the side of the people to
identify him with the have-nots but it
is not enough to endow him with these
special qualities that induce fear and
thus give him the means to establish
own power against the establishment here
again we find that it is power and fear
that are essential to the development of
faith so he means the faith of the
followers the organized close quote um
do you think that's how gay rights
became one of the most successful
political movements of the 20th century
and one of the most successful of the
21st century gay rights in many
countries around the world but for
example in Canada has been astoundingly
successful there were laws they wanted
abolished and they want they abolished
them there were new laws they wanted
past for example gay marriage and they
passed them okay gay rights is now so
successful in a country like Canada that
it is no longer a protest driven
movement it's no longer organizing to
oppose the establishment they can
basically celebrate because they've
they've won those victories do you think
that gay right let's let's say let's say
back in the 1960s do you think that
their strategy was for homosexuals to
try to be regarded as a dangerous enemy
by the establishment it to be regarded
as a dangerous enemy by this time do you
think that's how they made progress do
you think that they wanted to be
regarded with fear by the established
that they wanted more homophobia that
they wanted to be more dehumanized
whether as leaders you know leaders of
the movement or the community I think
the exact opposite of what he says here
could be argued much more persuasively
on a solid foundation of empirical
examples and with real-world
implications for how we organize
activism or political dissent pursuit of
political jinja today I think the exact
opposite of what he said here you know
and to spell it out I think that
homosexuals did not want to be feared
they wanted to regard it as normal human
beings they had to fight against a real
phobia real fear of the
a dehumanizing tenancy right I can say
the same about black the black civil
rights movement I think
african-americans were not pursuing the
okay so I got a few debt i shouldnt
generalise i think the successful
long-term elements that helped
african-americans improve the situation
the united states was not trying to get
this edgy reputation as being a
dangerous enemy of the establishment i
think on the contrary it was earning a
higher level of respect from the
establishment not not a higher level of
fear from the establishment but a higher
level of trust yeah if you're if people
are too afraid of you to interview on
the nightly news what does that get you
and there are there are some leaders to
that that's that's what you want to
pursue so I mean whether we apply this
to what tactics were actually successful
in the 1960s or what tactics would be
actually successful today I think many
of you would read a passage like this
without without any alarm bells going
off but for me this is 180 degrees wrong
this also brings me to another issue I
guess I'll jump ahead and I will digress
there is another video on YouTube by a
very well-known commentator on politics
sargon of akkad and in his review of
this book which is really just praise
for the book I don't even fault him for
that he wanted to counter sort of
hysterical tendency to demonize this
book he felt he wanted to give it a fair
airing and he does a video that's
nothing but praise which gives you a
kind of survey of the highlights of the
book he claims that this book never
endorsed his violence it never says she
reserves about and never even indirectly
suggests that never alludes to it and on
the contrary I think that Sargon simply
does not have enough of a background in
in politics and political science to
understand this book does repeatedly
allude to an endorsed Islands even even
if it is indirectly it is not that
indirect now a passage like this
inducing fear
from the establishment okay so you can
you can say this is nonviolent there is
one passage in this book that uses the
pretty obvious metaphor of killing rats
the actual wording is that he faults
other organizers Alinsky faults weaker
lesser organizers for only getting rid
of four-legged rats whereas he Olinsky
and people like em Olinsky and the
students he's trained they move on to
getting rid of two-legged rats that
passage I don't know how you can read it
without thinking that this is about
killing people getting rid of a rat in
modern English these people aren't
vegans they're not going to trap the rat
and non non-violently release it in the
while there's something it's completely
clear I think that's talking about
violence against people two legged rats
there's another passage that sticks in
my mind because I've studied recently
studied the history of Russia under
Lenin and so on where he endorses and
praises Lenin's pragmatic view that
democracy only matters when it's
convenient for you and then as soon as
you take over the guns as soon as you
take over the means of Milan so that's
the army or just your your revolution
your rebel group gets guess armed then
suddenly democracy doesn't matter
anymore now that passage it does not
explicitly say violence is good but
that's not to interact it's really not I
think someone like Sargon reads that he
just he doesn't know the history that's
being alluded to the reality is that
what Lenin did was both dishonorable and
immoral in holding elections when he
lost the elections because he did lose
the Bolshevik Party lost lennon should
not have been the leader of Russia on a
bit elections and who won a rival
left-wing party the left-wing party that
one was called the socialist
revolutionary party they're also pretty
far on the left but not as Extreme as
the Bolshevik Party right so Lenin
should have handed over
power to the leader of the socialist
revolutionaries because they won the
elections and the Bolsheviks should have
become a minority party in their house
of parliament he didn't do that Lenin
shut down the house of parliament and
hunted down and persecuted and executed
hunted down and killed the members of
those other parties and and even the
supporters thousands and thousands
people sorry obviously adds up to
millions the violence Lenin was engaged
in not Stalin Lenin many people want to
imagine that Lenin represents the good
old days before things got two valleys
unbelievably sickeningly door to door
house searches is persecution of the
worst kind very few people today seem to
belong it's I guess this is the 100th
anniversary right 1917 2017 very very
few people read the history of what
happened 100 years ago in that first
period of communism but it's incredibly
brutal and this book is endorsing
violence in alluding to it in that
passage so these are these are two
examples so i just say on that specific
issue Sargon is wrong Sargon claims that
the book doesn't there's violence nor
does it indirectly endorsements I think
that in a passage like this you are
indirectly alluding to the loot of the
use of force and I think in the other
passengers I mentioned such as talking
about getting rid of two-legged rats
talking about Lenin talking about
discarding democracy as soon as you have
access to guns as Lenin did that's
pretty directly endorsing violence and
you have to be pretty ignorant of
political science not to get it when you
read that now however I mean those might
be more salacious or controversial
passages it's not why I personally fault
or disagree with this book if this book
had useful advice despite its failings I
would say so I don't think this book has
useful advice I think that on the
contrary this is based on an illusion an
illusion that back in nineteen sixty had
some we
to it an illusion that all that radicals
have to do all that critics of the
establishment have to do is turn the tap
on the seething discontent of the masses
that the masses are just going to rise
up to support you you know as soon as
you reach out to them now certainly in
the 1960s specifically with African
Americans United States I know why he
would feel that way I mean it must have
felt to him that all he had to do was go
to these ghettos and reach out to people
and positive least you know one of his
examples he gives many is go into these
ghettos and talk to people about how bad
their housing conditions are and then
try to organize them to protest against
their landlord and you seem to be able
to harness this tremendous discontent
and you know poor black neighborhoods of
Chicago or what one of these Rochester I
get believe it's Rochester New York but
you know there were these slums and slum
Lords landlords and the slums and there
were these kinds of very clear social
struggles where all the organizer had to
do apparently was show up and talk to
people and you could start you know
harnessing seething discontent well the
vast majority of political struggles are
not like that okay um gay rights was not
like that it was not the case that
organizers go around our people and
leaves you know but even though gay
people definitely were dissatisfied with
some laws and with forms of prejudice
against dads Linda struggle for was a
real struggle and they were you know
dissatisfied with you know religious
attitudes towards them and so on many
many social struggles they can't just
harness seething discontent instead they
were addressed to a public which is
largely a pathetic largely indifferent
to the issue and satisfied if you want
people to stop using coal power and
switch to using solar power everyone's
happy with their electricity can you
even tell if you travel from city to
city of in America and Canada in
Australia ok lets users tralee as the
example Australia has one of the worst
coal power plants in the world's a
famous react
reactor so famous power plant burning
coal in Australia and it's on the list
when you get the top 10 list of the
worst polluting power plants in the
world that's normally somewhere in the
top five one of the worst if you drive a
car from city to city in australia can
you tell when you're in a city that has
coal-based electricity as opposed to
another form of electricity generation
you can't tell and the people are just
as happy the radio works the same the
air conditioner works the same the
internet works the same people can be
contented and indifferent the form of
social change to trying to pursue so if
your goal is a strictly ecological goal
you want to motivate people to be
concerned about the burning of coal and
Australia this book the whole approach
is going to be useless to you it's just
not the case that you can walk into a
neighborhood this way and organize
people and have seething discontent
uprightly there is there is no CD
discontent yep people are immediately
mildly curious or interested when you
explain to them look you know in our
city we use this coal power plant the
next city over they may be are using a
slightly better form of electricity
generation we need to talk about this we
need to talk about government policy
continue you know the idea that he says
you know okay read another little sample
here quote establishing once credentials
of competency is only part of the
organisers first job he needs other
credentials to begin credentials that
enable him to meet the question who
asked you to come in here with the
answer you did he must be invited in by
a significant sector of the local
population their churches Street
organizations social clubs or other
groups close quote okay I understand the
scenario this is written for in the
1960s but do you think anyone today can
operate that way do you think that a gay
rights activist could even wait for that
kind of invitation do you think that a
vegan activist an animal rights activist
can wait for that kind of invitation
well you know that there are
pre-existing civil society organizations
that would invite someone in that you're
not going to go to them and educate them
and NC and says I'm hey look here's
something you've never thought about
before whales are really mistreated in
theme parks whales are really being
mistreated in SeaWorld it's there's no
seething discontent in the bubble is not
like the masses are frightening up it's
not like you can say oh I'm going to
wait until I'm invited in by the local
church groups or unions or what have you
it's ridiculous it's just not applicable
and one question I have not seen
addressed anywhere in the book maybe
it's in here and I haven't found it yet
um I've read this on the airplane and at
the airport I really do wonder if I
missed it but nowhere I was really
looking for it nowhere could I see an
honest discussion of the finances of
organizing right maybe I should leave
that for a separate video to talk about
who do you think is paying the organizer
to do this so again union organizers
civil words who is paying your bills the
reality is the 1960s we now know was it
was debated for a long time we do know
that left wing organizers of this were
paid by the Soviet Union were paid by
Moscow and he used to be there was
debate about it before the Moscow or
archives open you know so after 1989 for
some years scholars had independent
access to the archives for the Soviet
Union and they confirmed actually many
many things that people suspected were
true in the Soviet era they were able to
confirm really were true so yes in order
to create more social contradictions in
the United States Soviet Union actually
did pay organizers to rile up black
discontent the United States now whether
or not that had good outcomes or bad
outcomes is another question but
actually the Soviet Union did pour money
into funding this type of activity
nobody is going to pay you to operate
this way in 2016 and this whole concept
of the the professional organizer having
a career and a devote dedicated
education and an income from this kind
of organizing you know I feel that this
is describing a world that is over
and it is a world that was based on the
unique circumstances really primarily of
the Cold War really primarily of
communism and anti-communism including
money coming from the Communist side and
to some extent you know unique
challenges like the experience of
African Americans in the 1960s so sir I
can read a passage on that the education
of an organizer requires frequent large
conferences on organizational problems
analysis of power patterns communication
conflict tactics the education and
development of community leaders and the
methods of introduction of new issues
[Music]
for an organizer time is meaningless
meetings and caucuses drag endlessly
into the early morning hours the
marriage record of organizers is with
rare exceptions disastrous closed code
this is describing a whole world of
devoted professionals with an education
and a career just in organizing like Sol
Sol Lansky himself ad for several
decades that worlds over what you what
do you think if who is who is going to
pay me to go and get a masters degree in
this or attend conferences or live this
life nobody I mean the other thing
that's great is that the cost of
organizing is dropped dramatically we
can have a conference on Google Hangouts
tomorrow no problem or via skype or you
know these internet based methods it's
wonderful that now for almost nothing
people can have a conference or a
meeting but what he is describing which
is genuinely people like himself getting
on an airplane eating in a restaurant
staying in a hotel attending conferences
that go on for days and days and smoking
cigarettes the whole time at world is
over know about anyone who is proposing
a methodology of the pursuit of
political change that relies on this
professional class of organizers is
giving terrible advice for the 21st
century and this whole book is built on
that premise so the whole book even if
it was only for that reason you could
say
it's terrible advice I'm now going to
reduce your passage that is maybe the
least controversial thing in the whole
book and many of you would read this
without thinking twice about it for me I
think it shows how far my views are and
my pragmatic approach to organizing
political dissent is from from Saul
Alinsky's so quote not only does a
single-issue organization condemn you to
having a small organization it is
axiomatic that a single-issue
organization won't last close quote so I
think that's false and I think Saul
Alinsky is lying to you when it really
counts empirically speaking do single
issue organizations achieve results do
single issue organizations last Mothers
Against Drunk Driving single issue
organization arguably mothers against
drunk driving is the single most
successful civil society organization in
the United States of America amazingly
durable amazingly effective they've
achieved their goals they have a budget
that keep getting donations they do
public education all the schools has
there ever been a communist party in the
United States of America as successful
as Mothers Against enjoy makassar solans
he is he has a communist even though
he's a small C communist he's a he's a
critic of communist orthodoxy but he
still has a communist what empirical
basis is there for claiming that single
issue organizations are small and not
durable or ineffective this is a huge
question within veganism animal rights
in ecology right now in 2016 is the the
moral above supposedly moral opposition
to single issue causes so let's stick
with mothers against drunk driving for a
minute do you think Mothers Against no
driving would be more successful if
instead of being a single issue cause a
single issue organization and sit here
if they didn't just talk about drunk
driving they also talked about
feminism and they also opposed abortion
and they also talked about I don't know
what other she's good let's say let's
say they didn't just oppose drunk
driving let's say they also wanted to
eliminate people drinking alcohol they
want higher taxes on alcohol for
everyone not just drunk drivers we can
throw in a bunch of other issues here
let's say they're involved with labor
unions there's a particular labor union
they support or something they're their
own vault let's say the bus drivers
labor unions they're involved in there
the more issues you throw in so it stops
being a single issue because for one
thing you're alienating more and more
donors who wants to donate money to
mothers against drunk driving now that
they're involved with feminism and
they're opposed to abortion and maybe
they have religious views maybe they're
involved with five or ten different
causes now so fewer and fewer people are
donating to them because fewer and fewer
people can support ethically what this
organization is in pursuit up
furthermore you're having more and more
internal division within the
organization I mean Mothers Against
Drunk Driving I assume some of their
members are left-wing and some of them
are right way probably a lot of their
members are feminists but some of them
are not probably some of them are
conservative when a new opposed drunk
driving and also don't much like
feminism right so if you have a
background in political science you can
see a lot of things that are wrong with
this but it ain't rocket science it's
not hard to see why this is terrible
advice on the Kadri one of the reasons
why Mothers Against from driving is so
effective so successful and so durable
is that it is a single-issue
organization so is Saul Alinsky
interested in empirical reality or not
the book tells you openly that it's
trying to manipulate you that it lies to
you there's an interesting part of the
book talks about manipulation and lying
he talks about lying to your followers
and why lying a manipulation are part of
political organization which is
interesting to hear I think this is an
example of him lying where it really
counts and not being honest about the
fact that actually the more issues you
bring in
the more you alienate people outside of
the organization and the more conflict
you create within the organization I say
this is not a compendium I could very
easily do a sequel or a number of
sequels talking about more issues that
are raised in the book whether
specifically related to veganism animal
rights or more generally I think i
should say briefly that i'm recording
this in the last few days of 2016 after
the election of Donald Trump during the
election this year 2016 there was
intense interest in this book a lot of
it kind of historical interest kind of
exaggerating the evils of this book
because this book was linked very
strongly to the life and beliefs and
career of Hillary Clinton so Hillary
Clinton as a young woman was a big
proponent of this book a big fan of the
author and so on and I think some people
want to use this to try to attack
Hillary Clinton as secretly being more
of a radical than she really is because
the word radical was in the title and
some people maybe wanted to criticize
Hillary Clinton to show how far she'd
drifted away from her roots in
radicalism okay and I do sympathize I
think the reason why sargon aback had
made this video links below this one
just praising just giving a one-sided
praise of this book is going to think he
wanted to counteract the hysteria which
is basically linked to Hillary Clinton
that was demonizing this book out of all
proportion to to its merits or its
faults or what have you um I think it's
important to criticize a book with an
awareness of what its pretensions
actually are this is not a cookbook um
this is supposed to be a manual for
organizing a political movement to
militate for social change to galvanize
descents however you want to put it and
considered as such a manual considered
from a pragmatic point of view I think
it's terrible I think the book is a
complete failure and saved by no means
but no means even covered half of what I
think is wrong about this book from that
private
matic perspective I think also I mean
for one thing it's hard to give advice
to people who don't want to hear it and
comments on that too actually or in the
relatively early pages of the book the
the great difficulty of giving unwanted
advice um I think it's very difficult to
be alive at any point in history of the
world and to recognize what are the
factors that sheet my own life the shape
my own perspective that bias my outlook
what are the factors that are really
unique to this decade or this year or
this milieu and what are the factors
that I can actually generalize about and
can talk to others about I am intensely
aware of that I am intensely aware that
my experience in Cambodia is not
applicable to my experience in Canada
truth be told my experience in Cambodia
politically is not applicable to my
experience in Laos those are two
countries right next door my experience
in Taiwan is not applicable to hong kong
hong kong is not applicable to China may
be at the opposite extreme and I'm
really aware that even though i've been
using them as examples here there is
definitely a sense in which you know
Mothers Against Drunk Driving so that's
the question could a similar
organization be successful in Russia
right now maybe not you know maybe you
have to look at the factors that made
mother's gonna start driving a success
and maybe they can't be transferred
between those two cultures I don't know
if the factors that make gay rights okay
there's another really the factors that
made the gay rights movement so
successful in Canada could those be
transferred to Russia I mean in the past
I mean right now Russia in 2016 maybe
not I mean I do think in a country like
Russia the struggle for gay rights is
still very much uphill whereas in
candidates achieved its its aims and you
know it in veganism and animal rights we
can't look back on a whole lot of
success there's very very little but I
mean if you want to talk about a success
the reforms that were passed by Ronald
Reagan the Ronald Reagan government
United States the reforms basically
still today the fund
legislature on animal rights the change
of vivisection is done expedition animal
is done and that was linked to the
founding of petta People for the Ethical
Treatment animals I don't know if we can
draw lessons from that experience that
will really give us guidance that's
useful now in 2016 probably not the
world has changed a lot in just a few
decades I do think there's a lot of deep
and worthwhile musing to be done on how
the assumptions of left-wing radicalism
are inapplicable to so many of the
social causes we may be pursuing today
by the way I guess it's an irony i have
on my desk here this is karl marx that's
capital in chinese translation i'm not a
Marxist I'm I'm the opposite but for me
I'm learning the Chinese language and
this is the vocabulary I need to learn
in terms of talking about economics and
politics and what have you I think I'm a
very rare example of someone who is not
left-wing boot is extremely well
educated and extremely well-versed in
left-wing politics and be yummy most of
the lessons I draw from that are
cautionary there- it's saying look we
need to be aware i mean if there are two
things that can powerfully warp your
perception of the world their success
and their failure of the two you can
probably learn more from examining a
failure ok so i mean you know in some
ways you can look back on the black
struggle for civil rights which is
definitely the major inspiration in this
book and you can see the success
african-americans have had okay in the
unique circumstances of the 1960s united
states of america what lessons can you
really draw from the success of of
african-americans in that situation that
are applicable to any political question
in 2016 what lessons can we draw from
this that would be applicable to the
struggle to raise the minimum wage in
the united states of america what
lessons can we draw from it that are
applicable to
ecology power generation you know any of
these examples have already mentioned in
passing the honest answer is damn few
there are very few positive lessons we
can drive that but I think actually the
number of negative lessons we can draw
or enormous the ways in which this book
is inapplicable to the guidance is
impracticable cannot be used and to
pursue these other goals that's that's a
really long list of lessons we can learn
definitely it is just not the case I
mean I think this book would lo some
people into believing that all they need
to do and occluding again I have no idea
the finance who would pay you to do it
that all you need to do is walk into a
community and harness their latent
discontent that they're seething with
revolutionary further pardon me they are
seething with revolutionary fervor if
only someone like Sol Olinsky walks in
and educates them and harnesses that and
that this is not only a force for reform
but is a force for revolution that's
that's out there in society that's just
not true you know least of all is it
true in reference to something something
like ecology animal rights and veganism
I I guess I'll close with that comment
you could simply make categorize you
could make two categories and categorize
on the one hand there are causes there
are political movements that are
harnessing already existing radicalism
already existing discontent with the
establishment and there are causes that
are addressed to a public that is
fundamentally comfortable indifferent
but not even interested in the question
you're raising I mean how we can improve
the conditions of chickens on factory
farms it's just not the case that people
in the streets of Chicago are ready to
tell rise up if you go into their
ghettos and explain to them
do you know how terrible the lives of
chickens are maybe they'll be interested
maybe they'll listen to you I mean maybe
you can have a conversation about it but
it's just ludicrous to imagine that this
ultimately communist fantasy based on
1789 1871 based on a very biased and
selective reading of a few revolutions
in the world's history and you know in
Souls case based on his real real life
experience to in organizing discontented
people maybe we have to talk about you
know on the one hand the politics of
contentment and the politics of
discontent but I mean acknowledging that
for me that's only the start of a long
list of reasons why I feel the guidance
provided by this book is not applicable
to and is not useful in our political
milieu today